# Schism Tracker

Schism Tracker is a free and open-source reimplementation of [Impulse
Tracker](Impulse%20Tracker), a program used to create high quality music
without the requirements of specialized, expensive equipment, and with a unique
"finger feel" that is difficult to replicate in part. The player is based on a
highly modified version of the [Modplug](https://openmpt.org/legacy_software)
engine, with a number of bugfixes and changes to [improve IT
playback](Player%20abuse%20tests).

Where Impulse Tracker was limited to i386-based systems running MS-DOS, Schism
Tracker runs on almost any platform that [SDL](http://www.libsdl.org/)
supports, and has been successfully built for Linux, Mac OS X, Windows,
FreeBSD, AmigaOS, BeOS, and even [the
Wii](http://www.wiibrew.org/wiki/Schism_Tracker). Schism will most likely build
on *any* architecture supported by GCC4 (e.g. alpha, m68k, arm, etc.) but it
will probably not be as well-optimized on many systems.

Schism Tracker was originally developed by
[Storlek](https://bitbucket.org/Storlek/) and resided on
[schismtracker.org](http://schismtracker.org/), but at the time of this writing
the original website has gone offline and the project has gone unmaintained for
over a year. This fork was created to continue the development of the program,
preserve the information from the original website's wiki, and distribute
up-to-date versions of the software.

See [the wiki](https://github.com/jangler/schismtracker/wiki) for more
information.

## Download

The latest stable builds for Windows, OS X, and Linux can be downloaded from
<https://github.com/jangler/schismtracker/releases>. Older builds for other
platforms can be found on [the
wiki](https://github.com/jangler/schismtracker/wiki/Schism-Tracker).
